README.md, before:

# Villancicos about Music from Seventeenth-Century Spain and New Spain

Edited by Andrew A. Cashner, *Web Library of Seventeenth-Century Music*, no. 32

## Contact

 - [E-mail](mailto:andrewacashner@ur.rochester.edu)
 - [Website](http://www.andrewcashner.com/villancicos/)

## Version History

Version | Date     | Comment
------- | -------- |----------------------
1.0     | 2017-12  |Expanded bibliography and minor corrections
0.1     | 2017-11  |Initial test release

## Copyright and License for Published Edition

All of the contents of this repository, including LaTeX and Lilypond
source code as well as the resulting typeset publication in PDF format, are
copyright © 2017 Andrew A. Cashner.

The complete typeset edition is published by the Society for
Seventeenth-Century Music as part of the 
[Web Library of Seventeenth-Century Music](http://www.sscm-wlscm.org).
The published edition is licensed under a 
[Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 
Unported License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/).

Users may download editions, print them for personal use, and perform them
in non-profit settings, provided proper acknowledgement is given to both the
editor and to the Society for Seventeenth-Century Music. 
Permission for performance in professional (for profit) settings must be
negotiated directly between the performers or their agents and the editor.
The editor remains the owner of all rights to the edition.

### License for Lilypond "Packages" 

This project uses a number of Lilypond "packages" developed by the editor
specifically for the needs of early music.
These packages aim to make the user interface more flexible and to separate
content from presentation to a greater degree.
They allow convenient usage of features including preparatory staves, mensural
coloration brackets, mensural time signatures, and editorial lyrical text.

The Lilypond files `*.ly` in the directory `scores/ly`, and only those files,
are released under the MIT License, copyright © 2017 Andrew A. Cashner:

> Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
> of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
> in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
> to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
> copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
> furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
> 
> The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
> copies or substantial portions of the Software.
> 
> THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
> IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
> FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
> AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
> LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
> OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
> SOFTWARE.

## Compilation

Given the copyright and license notice above, the following information is
provided solely for those curious about how the document was produced. 
The license does not permit you to produce your own altered versions of this
document without permission.

The master document is a `LaTeX` file which pulls in subfiles from the various
directories.
To compile the master document, you should have a complete installation of
TeXLive 2017 from <http://www.tug.org>, and a Unix-like shell with GNU Make and
basic utilities.
At the command line, simply run the command `make` to produce the complete PDF.

### Lilypond Scores

The musical scores are separate Lilypond files under the `scores` directory. 
They are compiled separately using the `typesetscores.sh` shell script in that
directory. 
You should have a complete installation of Lilypond version 2.19 or higher from
<http://www.lilypond.org/>.
To produce PDFs of the individual scores:

    cd scores
    sh typesetscores.sh

The master `LaTeX` document simply includes these PDFs and adds sectioning
commands, page numbers, and headers to them using the `pdfpages` package.

Commit message:

Version 1.1 revisions (see under acknowledgments): error corrections, terminology changes, copyright year update

README.md, after:

# Villancicos about Music from Seventeenth-Century Spain and New Spain

Edited by Andrew A. Cashner, *Web Library of Seventeenth-Century Music*, no. 32

## Contact

 - [E-mail](mailto:andrewacashner@ur.rochester.edu)
 - [Website](http://www.andrewcashner.com/villancicos/)

## Version History

Version | Date     | Comment
------- | -------- |----------------------
1.1     | 2018-12  | Error corrections, terminology changes, software updates
1.0     | 2017-12  | Expanded bibliography and minor corrections
0.1     | 2017-11  | Initial test release

## Copyright and License for Published Edition

All of the contents of this repository, including LaTeX and Lilypond
source code as well as the resulting typeset publication in PDF format, are
copyright © 2018 Andrew A. Cashner.

The complete typeset edition is published by the Society for
Seventeenth-Century Music as part of the 
[Web Library of Seventeenth-Century Music](http://www.sscm-wlscm.org).
The published edition is licensed under a 
[Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 
Unported License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/).

Users may download editions, print them for personal use, and perform them
in non-profit settings, provided proper acknowledgement is given to both the
editor and to the Society for Seventeenth-Century Music. 
Permission for performance in professional (for profit) settings must be
negotiated directly between the performers or their agents and the editor.
The editor remains the owner of all rights to the edition.

### Lilypond "Packages" 

This project uses a number of Lilypond "packages" developed by the editor
specifically for the needs of early music.
These packages aim to make the user interface more flexible and to separate
content from presentation to a greater degree.
They allow convenient usage of features including preparatory staves, mensural
coloration brackets, mensural time signatures, and editorial lyrical text.
Those packages are available in a separate Git repository, 
<http://andrewacashner@bitbucket.com/andrewacashner/ly.git>.

## Compilation

Given the copyright and license notice above, the following information is
provided solely for those curious about how the document was produced. 
The license does not permit you to produce your own altered versions of this
document without permission.

The master document is a `LaTeX` file which pulls in subfiles from the various
directories.
To compile the master document, you should have a complete installation of
TeXLive 2018 from <http://www.tug.org>, and a Unix-like shell with GNU Make and
basic utilities.
At the command line, simply run the command `make` to produce the complete PDF.

### Lilypond Scores

The musical scores are separate Lilypond files under the `scores` directory. 
They are compiled separately using the `typesetscores.sh` shell script in that
directory. 
You should have a complete installation of Lilypond version 2.19 or higher from
<http://www.lilypond.org/>.
To produce PDFs of the individual scores:

    cd scores
    sh typesetscores.sh

The master `LaTeX` document simply includes these PDFs and adds sectioning
commands, page numbers, and headers to them using the `pdfpages` package.
